*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 67207 ***







[Illustration: THE WITCH DROPPED IN TWO STRAWS FROM HER BROOM (_See page
32_)]




                            The Box of Smiles

                           (AND OTHER STORIES)

                        _By_ LAURA ROUNTREE SMITH
                      ILLUSTRATIONS BY F. M. PETTEE

                         WHITMAN PUBLISHING CO.
                            RACINE, WISCONSIN

                            COPYRIGHT 1920 BY
                         WHITMAN PUBLISHING CO.
                            RACINE, WISCONSIN




THE STORIES IN THIS BOOK


    THE BOX OF SMILES                                                    9

    THE FAIRY SHOEMAKER                                                 17

    TELL-TALE AND TATTLE TOO                                            27

    LITTLE STAY-AT-HOME AND THE WISHING PIN                             37

    LITTLE GIRL THROW-AWAY                                              46

    THE ENCHANTED STAIRCASE                                             54

    LITTLE DWARF COURAGE                                                68

    DOROTHY ANN AND THE WEE LITTLE MAN                                  72




THE PICTURES IN THIS BOOK

(ALL ARE IN COLORS)


    THE WITCH DROPPED IN TWO STRAWS FROM HER BROOM            Frontispiece

    HE WAS STANDING ON A SAND PILE SURE ENOUGH AND THERE WERE
      FAIRIES ALL AROUND HIM                                            15

    AT THAT VERY MINUTE A LITTLE FAIRY JUMPED RIGHT ON THE LITTLE TOE   19

    AND THEY BLEW AWAY, AWAY, AWAY                                      31

    THEY SAILED AWAY FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION                 43

    THE LITTLE FAIRY FROM THRIFT TOWN STEPPED OUT                       47

    THEY HAD A BIRTHDAY PARTY AND DANCED ROUND AND ROUND IN A RING      51

    THEY LOOKED UP AND SAW A CUTE LITTLE HOUSE IN A TREE AND AN OLD
      MAN STOOD AT THE DOOR                                             55

    THE DWARFS WERE ALL AT BREAKFAST DOWNSTAIRS                         59

    AND THE WEE PEOPLE CAME TUMBLING DOWN THE CHIMNEY ONE AFTER
      ANOTHER                                                           63




THE BOX OF SMILES


(Little Boo-Hoo—Is it Y-O-U?)

    “What shall I do
    For Little Boo-Hoo?”

cried mother one day.

Her little boy cried when he had his face washed, and cried when he had
to get up, and cried when he had to go to bed, and cried when he went to
school, or stubbed his toe, or lost a game of ball.

Little Fairy Light-Heart whispered to mother,

    “I can help you soon it seems,
    I’ll take him to the land of dreams.”

Before you could wink an eye-lash little Boo-Hoo was nid-nid-nodding, and
in the twinkling of an eye Fairy Light-Heart said,

    “The desert country is new to you,
    We’ll travel together, Little Boo-Hoo!”

Little Boo-Hoo rubbed his eyes.

He was standing on a sand pile sure enough, and there were fairies all
around him.

They were not fairies with happy, smiling faces, but they frowned and
scolded while Fairy Long-Face cried,

    “Little Boo-Hoo has cried for years,
    He soon will be dissolved in tears!”

Then the most surprising thing happened!

Four and twenty little fairies came running with four and twenty little
empty gold-fish bowls and Fairy Growly-Voice said,

    “Really we don’t mean to tease, Sir,
    Will you cry each bowl full please, Sir?”

The Elves and Fairies were very short of water in their desert home!

Before Little Boo-Hoo could shed a tear, Elf Big-Frown led a whole bucket
brigade and said,

    “Come, cry our buckets full for fun,
    Then we can get our washing done.”

All the fairies set up a chorus,

    “A bucket full, come cry with pleasure,
    Little Boo-Hoo give good measure.”

Then Fairy Contrary said,

    “Come cry a pond full, for we think
    We’ll freeze it for a skating rink.”

Just as Little Boo-Hoo began to feel a tiny little bit scared under his
left hand vest coat pocket, Fairy Light-Heart, who had left only for a
minute, skipped first on one foot then on the other singing,

    “In a hole, high in the tree,
    See the little Wishing Key!”

Little Boo-Hoo looked above him, on a branch hung a little key.

He took it in his chubby little fingers and read on the key,

    “If you travel miles and miles,
    Perhaps you’ll find the Box of Smiles.”

Then the dimples began to play about his mouth, and because the fairy
verse mentioned “miles” he thought as likely as not, the Box of Smiles
might be near, for the fairies enjoy a joke!

He put his hand in the hole in a hollow tree beside him, and out came the
Box of Smiles.

On the box was written,

    “The Box of Smiles before you see,
    Open with your Wishing Key.”

He put the key in the lock.

It turned with a click, click, click.

Out flew the smiles!

Big smiles, little smiles, middle-sized smiles,

    “Smiles to fit most any face,
    Smiles for every time and place!”

The fairies formed a magic ring and danced around Little Boo-Hoo, and
while he was with them he never shed a tear! Every one smiled, and smiled.

Fairy Light-Heart took Little Boo-Hoo’s hand and they danced away, away,
away, and when he awoke it was the dawn of day, and there hung the
Wishing Key on a little blue ribbon, round his neck.

Whether he ever found the Box of Smiles again or not I do not know, but
he was always dimpling and smiling and speaking of fairy gold-fish bowls,
and wondering if the fairies ever got their washing done, and talking
about fairies skating on a pond.

[Illustration: HE WAS STANDING ON A SAND PILE SURE ENOUGH AND THERE WERE
FAIRIES ALL AROUND HIM (_See page 10_)]

Whatever happened after that,

    “He couldn’t cry and wouldn’t cry,
    But he never told the reason why.”

If you find the Box of Smiles be very careful when you unlock it for,

    When you unlock the box of smiles,
    They’re apt to travel miles and miles,
    They sing. It is true, to Little Boo-Hoo,
    “Ha, ha, and ho, ho, we’re looking for you
    Fairy Light-Heart is full of wiles,
    Just ask her for the Box of Smiles.”




THE FAIRY SHOEMAKER


    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    Oh, ho, it is fun to be making a shoe.”

sang the Fairy Shoemakers as Little June ran through the woods one day.

She stopped and listened and heard the fairy hammers, but she could not
see where the fairies were hidden.

Little June looked down at her worn out slippers and said,

    “I’d like new slippers, I’d like new shoes,
    Of every color, if I could choose.”

She went on to the store, with a basket on her arm, for she was the
little errand girl of the family.

As she came back home through the woods, she heard someone singing,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    We are making a little red slipper for you.”

Little June looked under the broad leaves about her path, and under the
toad-stools, but she could not see where the voice came from.

Every day she ran out and did errands willingly, and only once did she
complain to her mother about her shabby slippers.

Mother put little bows of ribbon on the shabby slippers to cover the worn
part, and she said everything cost so much this year June would have to
wait for a new pair.

[Illustration: AT THAT VERY MINUTE A LITTLE FAIRY JUMPED RIGHT ON THE
LITTLE TOE (_See page 21_)]

Mother said pleasantly,

    “Wait a little longer dear,
    ’Till coins, in my purse, you hear.”

Whenever June ran through the woods she heard a new song, and every bird
and animal she met made friends with her.

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    We’ll make a little slipper of blue,”

sang the Fairy Shoemakers, and Little June clapped her hands singing,

    “I need new slippers, I need new shoes,
    If they’re for me, that’s glorious news.”

One day June went on her way sadly, for one little toe showed through one
little slipper.

By and by as she sat down on a log to rest two little tears began to
trickle down her cheeks.

At that very minute a little fairy jumped right on the little toe, that
peeped out from the little slipper, singing,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, how can I see,
    Who will thread the needle for me?”

It was a tiny needle of course, but Little June had bright eyes and she
threaded it while the Fairy sang,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    I make silver slippers with buckles new.”

Then June knew that she was talking to one of the Fairy Shoemakers and
she said,

    “Oh Fairy Shoemaker if you choose,
    Could you make me slippers or shoes?”

The Fairy pretended he did not hear, but he blew a silver whistle, and
four and twenty little Fairy Shoemakers came, with their four and twenty
little needles and one after another, they asked the little girl to
thread them.

As they hopped about her, she never dreamed that they might be measuring
her feet for a pair of slippers.

One of the Fairies hopped right up in her lap, saying,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    We heard you were crying, oh was it true?”

Little June said, “How would you feel if you were in a performance to be
given the last day of school, and what if you had to dance in the front
row, with an old pair of slippers on?”

At that, the Fairy Shoemakers all sang in a chorus,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    And in the front row, that will never do.”

Little June did not know that she had been dreaming in the woods that
Saturday morning, until she felt a gentle tap on her shoulder, and there
stood her teacher before her.

Little June cried again and told her teacher all her troubles, and her
teacher said, “I love the fairies too, hark! what is that?”

They both heard the fairy song,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    We are making little red slippers for you.”

Little June went merrily homeward.

The last day of school drew nearer and nearer.

The little slippers grew more and more shabby!

At last the great day came, and mother said she was sorry she had no new
slippers for the willing little feet.

She said,

    “I’m sorry when the day is here,
    No coins are in my purse, I fear.”

Little June sat down and sang,

    “I need new slippers, I think it funny,
    I know no way of making money.”

Evening came, and she put on the little white dress she had ironed
herself, and the little red sash and hair ribbons father had given her.

She looked at the little old slippers, with patches upon them. They had
been carefully blackened.

At that very minute the door-bell went, “Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle.”

She ran downstairs in her stocking feet.

There, on the door-step was a box marked, “For June.”

With trembling fingers she opened it, and took out a pair of little red
slippers.

They were exactly the right size.

They had gilt buckles upon them.

Little June was so happy she danced the best of any one, she had to come
out by and by all alone, in her little red slippers and dance for an
encore.

The people said it was the prettiest little performance they had ever
seen, and Little June knew that it was a fairy dance, and that she had
learned it from the Fairy Shoemakers who measured her for a pair of
slippers.

Even as she danced she thought she heard their fairy hammers ringing, and
their fairy voices singing,

    “A rat, a tat, tat, a rat, a tat, too,
    We made the little red slippers for you.”




TELL-TALE & TATTLE-TOO


    A Halloween Story for Me and You
    On Halloween night, when the moon is bright
    The witches are about,
    On Halloween night, if you’re not good, quite,
    They’ll scare you without doubt.

Once upon a time, there was a little boy who always told tales, and
always tattled on his playmates at school.

On Halloween night, a big Jack O’ Lantern appeared on the window-sill of
his room, and called out of its crooked mouth,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    It’s Halloween, we’ve come for you.”

The little boy replied,

    “I am a Tell-Tale, I’ve heard said,
    That you are just a pumpkin head.”

At this very minute, a Black Cat jumped up on the window-sill, winking
and blinking her great round eyes, and she said, as she showed her white
teeth,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    It’s Halloween, we’ve come for you.”

The little boy answered,

    “I am Tell-Tale, on Halloween,
    I hear Black Cats are often seen.”

Then, whisk, bound, without any warning, a witch on a broom rode right up
on the window-sill and shouted,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    It’s Halloween, I’ve come for you.”

As she said the last word, the wind blew, “Ooo-ooo-” and it blew the
little boy right on the witch’s broom stick and they blew away, away,
away.

The Jack O’ Lantern and big Black Cat had to run as fast as they could to
keep up.

By and by they sailed down, down, down into the heart of the deep green
woods.

    Brownies dance on Halloween,
    Tripping lightly o’er the green.

There were Brownies sure enough, dancing in a circle. They waved their
hands and made comical faces singing.

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Join the ring, we’ve room for you.”

Before he knew it, the little boy was dancing round and round the ring
with the Brownies.

He was all out of breath when they stopped dancing and the Jack O’
Lantern said,

    “He tells tales as a rule,
    On the playground or in school.”

The Black Cat said,

    “He tip-toes in without a noise,
    And tells tales on girls and boys.”

The Witch said,

    “Tell-Tale Tattlers are a trouble,
    In the kettle, let him bubble.”

The Brownies said,

    “We will test him in the woods,
    He may decide he will be good.”

[Illustration: AND THEY BLEW AWAY, AWAY, AWAY (_See page 29_)]

They all began to dance around a big kettle, that hung over the fire. The
Brownies covered their eyes and the Jack O’ Lantern dropped a candle in
the kettle. The Black Cat dropped in catnip and the witch dropped in two
straws from her broom.

Then the Brownies uncovered their eyes and said,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Tell us what did Jack O’ Lantern do?”

Tell-Tale put his hand over his mouth for he wanted to whisper, “He
dropped in a candle, and it will spoil your kettle of soup,” but he sat
stock-still and never said a word.

Then the Brownies winked and blinked at each other as they said,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Tell us what did the Black Cat do?”

Tell-Tale put both hands over his mouth this time for he wanted to sing
out, “She put catnip in the kettle and it will spoil your porridge,” but
he smiled to himself and never answered a word.

Then the Brownies clapped their hands as much as to say, “We’ve got him
this time,” and said,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Tell us what did the old Witch do?”

The little boy turned a backward somersault for he wanted to shout, “She
put two straws in the kettle and it will spoil your stew,” but he said
never a word.

Then the most surprising thing happened.

The candle jumped out of the kettle and said,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Is not a good name now for you.”

Then the candle jumped into a beautiful Halloween lantern and stood by
his side, while the catnip jumped out of the kettle and said,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Such a name will never do.”

Then the catnip began to weave this way and that way, till it wove a
beautiful carriage for the little boy to ride home in.

Out jumped the two straws from the kettle and sang,

    “Tell-Tale and Tattle-Too,
    Think a minute, is it you?”

The straws turned into two coal-black steeds and were ready to draw the
beautiful carriage.

The lantern lighted their way, and saying good bye to the Jack O’
Lantern, the Big Black Cat, and Witch, he drove merrily homeward.

    As a Halloween joke,
    Just then he awoke.

He saw a Halloween lantern in the moon-light. It hung above the
window-sill and as it turned round and round, he saw on it a Jack O’
Lantern, a Big Black Cat and a Witch!

He cried,

    “’Tis a magic lantern, if I were in it,
    I’d change my name to Think-A-Minute.”

Whether he rode in the magic lantern or not, I cannot say, but every
year on Halloween a Big Black Cat, sat on his door-step, and a Jack O’
Lantern peeped in his window, and a Witch riding by on a broom said,

    “Think-A-Minute, how do you do?
    ’Tis Halloween, we’ve come for you.”

He had many jolly rides with the trio many times on Halloween without
doubt.

I wish I knew if he really changed his name to “Think-A-Minute.” I forgot
to ask him.




LITTLE STAY-AT-HOME AND THE WISHING-PIN


If Little Stay-At-Home had not found a red, white and blue pin on the 4th
of July perhaps nothing fairylike would have happened.

She said to herself over and over,

    “The Fourth of July, the Fourth of July
    To be contented at home I’ll try.”

The children going to the Fourth of July celebration waved their hands to
her and called, “Goodbye, Little Stay-At-Home, good-bye.”

Little Stay-At-Home knew that mother needed her at home, and she knew
that the ironing had to be done.

As she got out the Clothes Horse she heard a voice call.

    “Red, white and blue is your pin I see,
    Why don’t you make wishes, one, two, three?”

Then the Ironing Board piped up,

    “Red, white and blue for the Fourth of July
    You can make wishes now if you try.”

The Iron acted in the strangest manner and began to run to and fro on the
Ironing Board, saying,

    “Fairies grant wishes by and by,
    Hurrah, hurrah, for the Fourth of July.”

Little Stay-At-Home had never happened to see kitchen things act in such
a comical manner.

She stood first on one foot, then on the other and said,

    “Oh little pin red, white and blue
    I want peanut bags, and fire crackers too.”

Then the first surprising thing happened.

A Peanut Bag sailed in the window and the Peanut Fairies sailed about as
lively as crickets. They sprinkled and folded the clothes neatly.

Little Stay-At-Home clapped her hands and said,

    “Oh little pin do not delay
    I’d like more help on ironing day.”

Then the second surprising thing happened.

A Firecracker walked in proudly, jumped up on the Ironing Board and began
to iron clothes as neatly as you please.

A cracked voice called,

    “Ha, ha, ha, let’s work together,
    Minding not the time nor weather.”

Little Stay-At-Home began to iron on the table, and the Firecracker
ironed on the board. My! how fast the work went on.

Suddenly the little girl remembered she had one more wish so she said,

    “To finish my work I always try,
    But I’d like some fun on the Fourth of July.”

Then the third surprising thing happened.

In floated a red, white, and blue balloon with a basket below it, to ride
in.

The Peanut Fairies jumped in the basket.

The Firecracker jumped in and Little Stay-At-Home jumped in beside him.

They sailed away to the Fourth of July celebration.

The Fireworks had not arrived.

Little Stay-At-Home wondered if she could have one more wish, so she
rubbed her little Wishing Pin and wished that the Fireworks would come at
once.

To the delight of all, they arrived and everyone shouted, “Hurrah, for
the Fourth of July!”

After the Fireworks were over and the red lemonade was passed the strange
company in the basket sailed right back in the kitchen window.

A sweet voice called,

    “Wake up, wake up red, white and blue,
    Wake up, I have a surprise for you.”

Mother stood in the doorway with a glass of red lemonade on a tray, and a
dish of white ice cream, and cakes covered with red and blue sugar.

Little Stay-At-Home rubbed her sleepy eyes, her adventure seemed very
real, and sure enough the ironing was all done!

Little Stay-At-Home and mother sat down to enjoy their treat. She told
mother her adventures.

She put her hand to her dress.

The Wishing Pin was gone.

[Illustration: THEY SAILED AWAY FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION (_See
page 41_)]

Mother said,

    “To be good I wish you’d always try
    As you were this happy Fourth of July.”

Then the most surprising thing of all happened.

They saw a red balloon sailing over the house and a nutty voice called
out,

    “To help next year we’ll also try,
    We wish you a happy Fourth of July.”

They next saw a white balloon sail over the house and a fiery voice
called,

    “If you’re good I’ll help you by and by
    Just call on me next Fourth of July.”

The Firecracker sailed away in his balloon.

Then a blue balloon sailed over the house and a fairy voice called,

    “I cannot stop with you but to call good-bye
    Here’s your wishing pin for the Fourth of July.”

The Wishing Pin dropped right down into Little Stay-At-Home’s hand!

She called,

    “Hurrah, for balloons that sail on high
    Hurrah, hurrah, for the Fourth of July.”

Now that Little Stay-At-Home has the Wishing Pin to keep for all I know
she may make three wishes every day.




THE LITTLE GIRL THROW-AWAY


Little Girl Throw-Away was always throwing something away from morning
until night.

    “She threw away paper, she threw away string
    She threw away almost everything.”

One day a fairy peeped in the window and called,

    “Little Girl Throw-Away,
    Hear what the Thrifty Fairies say.”

The little girl said, “I don’t believe in fairies except big ones like
Santa Claus.”

Then the most surprising thing happened.

[Illustration: THE LITTLE FAIRY FROM THRIFT TOWN STEPPED OUT (_See page
50_)]

The Thrifty Fairies sailed in the window and tugged at the little girl’s
dress and apron, and soon they carried her away, away, away to Thrift
Town.

There every one was smiling and happy and every one was talking about
saving something.

They called in merry little voices,

    “Save to-day, save to-morrow,
    Then you’ll never have to borrow.”

The Thrifty people were very, very small and looked like real fairies.
One little Fairy called,

    “I’d make a four-poster bed to-day,
    If I had your pencils, Girl Throw-Away.”

Little Girl Throw-Away looked in her dress pocket and apron pocket, but
she could not find any pencils at all. Then the Fairy said,

    “I like paper sheets, you think it funny,
    But they would save me lots of money.”

Then Little Girl Throw-Away, sighed, “Oh dear, oh dear, I do throw away
things so much, I never save my paper, I never write on both sides of a
sheet.”

The Fairy next said in a sing-song kind of way,

    “I would be glad of everything,
    If I only had a ball of string.”

She would not tell anyone what she wanted the string for.

By and by the Thrifty Fairies took Little Girl Throw-Away home.

She sat in her little red rocking chair and said, “I cannot see the
Fairies now, but I will begin to save for them!”

So she saved her little bits of pencils and paper and string, and laid
them in a little box on the window-sill every night, and every morning
they were gone.

She saved all the paper bags too, that came to the house for the Fairies.

By and by at the end of a year and a day, she saw a Fairy balloon.

It sailed down, down, down, and the little Fairy from Thrift Town stepped
out and said,

    “Our balloon is made of your paper and string
    And kites too we have made, and everything.”

[Illustration: THEY HAD A BIRTHDAY PARTY AND DANCED ROUND AND ROUND IN A
RING (_See page 66_)]

She gave Little Girl Throw-Away a tiny little white box. On opening it,
the Little Girl found a tiny gold ring with a forget-me-not upon it.
Inside the ring was written,

    “Save a bit every day,
    Help the fairies in their play.”

Waving her hand gayly the little Fairy stepped back into her balloon and
sailed away, away, away to Thrift Town.

Little Girl Throw-Away put her ring on her third finger and wished it on,
saying,

    “I am Save-A-Bit, you understand,
    For I have been to Fairyland!”

Soon every little girl in town was saving paper, and pencils and strings,
and I think the Fairies must often have dropped things down to them from
their gay balloons, for the children wore happy smiles and talked in a
fairy language.

They sang fairy songs too,

    “Think, before you throw away,
    That’s what all the fairies say,
    The Thrifty Fairies wear a smile,
    And that’s what makes their life worthwhile.”

Little Girl Throw-Away became a very thrifty child and sometimes she
talked in fairy rhymes.

    “I’m very glad the fairies came,
    And played with me a pleasant game,
    If you would like to do the same,
    Just save a bit, and change your name.”

The Little Girl changed her name to “Girl Save-A-Bit,” and many a time
she played with the Fairies from Thrift Town.




THE ENCHANTED STAIRCASE

(A BIRTHDAY STORY)


Little Boy lived with such old people they had forgotten what a Birthday
Party was, so he said,

    “How can I give invitation hearty,
    Unless I prepare for a Birthday Party?”

To his surprise, the staircase on which he stood, answered,

    “If you go up this staircase as like as not
    You’ll get to the bottom instead of the top.”

[Illustration: THEY LOOKED UP AND SAW A CUTE LITTLE HOUSE IN A TREE AND
AN OLD MAN STOOD AT THE DOOR (_See page 71_)]

Little Boy chuckled as he rattled the pennies in his pocket and said
happily,

    “Little pennies, dimes will make,
    Soon I’ll buy my Birthday Cake!”

Before the pennies could be changed into dimes or answer a word, and
before Little Boy could get into bed, (for it was his sleepy time)
“pitter, patter, pitter, patter” was heard on the staircase and up came
Fairy Good-Cheer, saying,

    “I need a Birthday Cake I fear,
    My birthday comes but once a year.”

The Fairies had always been so good to Little Boy that he emptied his
pockets of the pennies he had saved for his own Birthday Cake, and Fairy
Good-Cheer went off singing,

    “When anything you want to know,
    To the enchanted staircase go.”

Little Boy saved up his pennies again for a week and a day and said,

    “Little pennies round and bright,
    Will you buy me candles for a light?”

Before the pennies could answer a word, “pitter, patter pitter, patter,”
was heard on the staircase and up came Fairy Light-Heart saying,

    “I must buy eight candles to lend a glow,
    You’ll lend them to me Little Boy I know.”

As Little Boy handed Fairy Light-Heart the pennies she sang,

    “When anything you want to know,
    To the enchanted staircase go.”

Little Boy saved up pennies again for a week and a day and said,

    “Little pennies for a treat,
    Will you buy some candy sweet?”

Before the pennies could answer, “pitter, patter, pitter, patter” was
heard on the staircase and Fairy Sweet-Tooth said as she bounded in,

    “All I need is some Birthday Candy,
    Do you happen to have some handy?”

As Little Boy parted with his pennies again, she went off singing,

    “When anything you want to know,
    To the enchanted staircase go.”

[Illustration: THE DWARFS WERE ALL AT BREAKFAST DOWNSTAIRS (_See page
67_)]

Once more Little Boy saved his pennies and when he had twenty-three he
said,

    “Little pennies twenty-three,
    Will you buy a top for me?”

He put his hand up to his ear to listen.

Sure enough, again he heard, “pitter, patter, pitter, patter” and up came
Fairy Sing-Song, singing,

    “All I need is a musical top,
    That will spin, and spin and never stop.”

As Little Boy counted out his twenty-three pennies she went off singing,

    “When anything you want to know,
    To the enchanted staircase go.”

Little Boy sighed after the Fairies left him and he went out and sat down
on his own staircase saying,

    “To-morrow my Birthday will be here,
    I’ll have no party now I fear.”

Then the enchanted staircase on which he was sitting cried,

    “Just go to the bottom, look up and see,
    The Fairies surprise both you and me.”

Little Boy ran down stairs and looked up.

He saw on the tip top step a wonderful Birthday Cake. It was large and
round and had pink and white frosting upon it.

Just then a cheerful voice called,

    “Fairy Good-Cheer makes no mistake,
    She has sent to you a Birthday Cake.”

Then, as Little Boy winked and blinked his eyes to be sure he was not
dreaming, a laughing voice called,

    “Fairy Light-Heart brings the candles,
    More than one Boy ever handles.”

There shone candles on every step, big candles, little candles,
middle-sized candles, Birthday Candles, red, white and blue candles,
ready to light the Birthday Cake.

Then he saw boxes, and boxes of candy, while a sugary voice cried,

    “Fairy Sweet-Tooth pile them higher,
    Of candy, small Boys never tire.”

Little Boy laughed so hard that he rolled right over in a heap on the
floor, for the Fairy piled candy right up to the ceiling.

Then a Musical Top began to spin down the staircase singing,

    “Fairy Sing-Song’s smile is winning,
    See, she sets your top a spinning.”

“My Top,” said Little Boy in surprise.

[Illustration: AND THE WEE PEOPLE CAME TUMBLING DOWN THE CHIMNEY ONE
AFTER ANOTHER (_See page 73_)]

Then all the fairies trooped down stairs and cried,

    “’Tis heigh! my hearty, and ho! my hearty,
    We’ll help you make a Birthday Party.”

Then the most wonderful thing of all happened.

The top step of the enchanted staircase opened.

The Birthday Cake led the way.

The lighted candles went two and two, and the candy boxes followed, while
all the time the Musical Top played.

Fairy Good-Cheer and Fairy Sweet-Tooth cried,

    “When you give pennies up ’tis true,
    Surprises sometimes come to you.”

The Musical Top took one of Little Boy’s hands singing,

    “We are on the road to Fairyland,
    We hear a distant Elfin Band,
    Thither we’ll haste without delay,
    For the fairies call, ‘Away, away,’
    When you feel the touch of the magic hand,
    You can see the lights of Fairyland.”

Fairy Light-Heart took Little Boy’s other hand singing,

    “How shall we ride to Fairyland?
    Shall we find the realm on sea or land?
    In that wonderful hour when dreams come true
    There’s a fairy palace for me and you,
    I am the Queen you understand,
    And you are the King of Fairyland.”

In less time than it takes to tell it, the Fairies led Little Boy into
Fairyland.

They had a Birthday Party and danced round and round in a ring and for
all I know they are dancing yet.

If you ever hear an old staircase go “creak, creak” when you are on it,
put your ear close to one of the steps and listen. It may be trying to
talk to you and say,

    “When anything you want to know,
    To the enchanted staircase go.”

Whether your staircase is enchanted or not you can never tell until you
try it.




LITTLE DWARF COURAGE


Once upon a time when Dot went to visit the Little Dwarfs that live in
the woods she stayed all night.

She overslept, and woke at last when they were all at breakfast
downstairs. She heard the “Click, click” of their silver spoons.

She knew the Dwarfs would soon go out on their travels so she dressed
quickly and came downstairs and said, “Oh Dwarf Courage, please take me
with you tonight.”

Then Dwarf Courage held his head on one side and Dwarf Laughter chuckled.

Dwarf Courage replied,

    “You may follow up and down,
    If you will wear a cap and gown.”

Dot said, “I can hardly wait for night, I want to see how you give
children courage.”

Dwarf Courage said,

    “Miss Dorothy Delia Drusilla Dot,
    Night time will come as like as not.”

At last evening came, and they started out in cap and gown, Dwarf Courage
saying,

    “We’ll have to hurry, for it’s said,
    Some children fear to go to bed.”

What fun they had when they came to town, running up one staircase, after
another, helping the children to go happily to bed.

One little boy was afraid after he had gotten to bed and Dwarf Courage
pulled aside the curtain and showed him the friendly moon and he went
happily to sleep.

One little girl was afraid to stay alone in the dark and Dwarf Courage
cried,

    “The clock is company for you,
    Just hear it sing “Cuckoo, cuckoo.”

Dot said, “I never thought before what little ’fraid cats some children
are.”

At this, Dwarf Courage turned a backward somersault down the stairs and
said,

    “Honestly Dot, I will tell you,
    There are some grown folks scarey too.”

They had hardly gotten outside when they saw an old man walking in the
moon-light, “See,” said Dot. “He is really afraid of falling.”

Dot took one hand and Dwarf Courage the other and soon the old man was
safe at home.

As they ran along giving every one courage, Dwarf Courage sang,

    “They’re scared of rats and scared of mice
    And often scared of things quite nice,
    They’re scared at morning, night and noon,
    They’re scared of faces in the moon,
    Oh tell me, what would people do,
    If Little Dwarf Courage were scarey too?”

They ran along through the woods and some one was singing,

    “Umbrellas to lend, but none to sell,
    Umbrellas to mend, come ring my bell.”

The rain was falling, “patter, patter, patter,” and they surely needed
an umbrella.

Dot said, “Where is the house?”

Dwarf Courage answered,

    “Look for the house, look in the tree,
    There, a funny old man should be.”

They looked up and saw a cute little house in a tree and an old man stood
at the door with umbrellas in each hand.

Dwarf Courage cried,

    “See, old, man, we’ve come to borrow,
    We’ll return them both to-morrow.”

Without a word in reply down sailed two little fairy umbrellas, and as
Dot took one and Dwarf Courage took the other, they sailed right through
the air to the little wee house in the woods, and Dwarf Laughter had a
merry ha, ha, as they sailed in the open window.




DOROTHY ANN AND THE WEE LITTLE MAN

(A THANKSGIVING STORY)


    “Little Dorothy Marjorie Ann,
    Do be thankful if you can,”

called a wee little voice one wintry November evening.

Then a wee little red boot was seen coming down the chimney, and another
little red boot, and one of the Wee People soon was skipping merrily on
the hearth.

He danced himself nearly out of breath singing,

    “I’m a wee little man from far away,
    I’ll help you keep Thanksgiving Day.”

At this, Dorothy Marjorie Ann scowled and said,

    “I’ve nothing to be thankful for,
    I think I mentioned that before.”

Then the most surprising thing happened.

The Wee Little Man blew a whistle, and the Wee People came tumbling down
the chimney, one after another, and the most remarkable thing of all was,
not one had a speck of soot on his clothing.

All the fairies were scolding.

The Wee Bed-Time Fairy sang,

    “I’m thankful when you go to bed,
    For I am such a sleepy-head.”

The Mirror Fairy said,

    “I’d be thankful you understand,
    If you liked to wash face and hands.”

The Rubber Fairy in the hall began:

    “You know we often spoke before,
    We’re thankful when we’re off the floor.”

The Toy Fairy called,

    “We may be thankful once again,
    But spent last night, out in the rain.”

The School Bell Fairy sang,

    “I’d be thankful as a rule,
    If you liked to go to school.”

The Waste-Basket Fairy said,

    “I’d be thankful since you ask it
    If you would notice me—the basket.”

The Good-Mannered Fairy sang,

    “We will be thankful when Dorothy’s able
    To keep her elbows off the table.”

At that, Dorothy Marjorie Ann danced and capered about for she had no
idea before, that she had anything to do with making the Wee People
thankful, and every hour it grew nearer, and nearer Thanksgiving Day.

Soon all the Fairies were dancing and shouting,

    “We’re thankful that Dorothy Marjorie Ann,
    Will try to be happy whenever she can.”

Then the Wee Little Man who first came down the chimney joined hands with
her, and they danced up the chimney, off and away, over hill and dale,
and all the Wee Fairy People followed them.

Soon they came to a little Wee House.

The table was set for Thanksgiving dinner. Dorothy Marjorie Ann said,

    “If I were a maiden like Fairies Wee,
    Oh my! how thankful then I’d be.”

She did not notice that the Little Wee Man had put his wishing cap on her
head, and as they ran on, she began to grow smaller, and smaller, and
smaller.

They ran all round the house, and the Fairies crowded round her and said,

    “Dorothy Marjorie Ann we see,
    Has grown so little, she’s wee, wee.”

The Fairies snatched off the wishing cap just in time or there would have
been no Dorothy Marjorie Ann left at all!

They all trooped in to dinner, and every hour it grew nearer and nearer
Thanksgiving Day.

They sat at a table and Dorothy Marjorie Ann clapped her hands as down
sailed some sliced turkey on her plate.

At this very minute the Wee People set up a cry,

    “Take it away, take it away,
    She does not like Thanksgiving Day.”

Away sailed the turkey, plate and all.

Down sailed a fine piece of pumpkin pie on her plate.

Just as she put her fork into it the Wee People clapped their hands and
sang,

    “We’ll do this to Dorothy Marjorie Ann,
    We’ll put her in the baking pan,
    She looks rosy, nice and sweet,
    And almost good enough to eat,
    We think we’ll take her far away,
    And have a fine Thanksgiving Day.”

    “Take it away, take it away,
    She makes no one thankful here to-day.”

The plate sailed away as before.

Down came a plate with cranberry sauce and cookies, but she had not even
taken a bite when the Wee People called,

    “Take it away, take it away,
    She’s never thankful we heard her say.”

Away sailed the plate, and Dorothy Marjorie Ann was so disappointed, that
she ran to the door and put on her wishing cap and said,

    “That dinner was a great surprise,
    I want to be the proper size.”

She grew just as big as she was before, and the Little People crowded
around her and tugged at her dress singing.

At this very minute Uncle Phil came to the rescue, singing,

    “My little girl you took a nap,
    In Uncle’s funny smoking cap.”

Dorothy Marjorie Ann winked and blinked her eyes; sure enough she did
have a funny cap on, and she cried,

    “I am more thankful than I can say,
    That I came home for Thanksgiving Day.”

“Where have you been?” asked Father as they sat down to eat turkey and
pie and cranberry sauce.

“Where have you been?” asked Mother.

Dorothy Marjorie Ann said,

    “I am thankful as can be,
    I don’t live with people Wee.”

Uncle Phil knew a few things himself about the Wee People so he said,

    “She went over the bridge I understand,
    And met the Wee People in Fairyland.”

After that Dorothy Marjorie Ann found 101 things to be thankful for and
made all the Wee People thankful.

    “I am Dorothy Marjorie Ann,
    I’ll do all the good every day I can,
    When I work or play, I’ll always say
    I am thankful for Thanksgiving Day.”



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 67207 ***
